Exec Doc 2025-07-24 (#24)
sky-ecosystem/executive-votes: 2025/executive-vote-2025-07-24.md

---

## Proposal Details

### Sky Token Rewards Rebalance

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/9)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/8)

If this executive proposal passes, then the distribution of SKY token rewards to USDS holders will be normalized to ensure the effective yield provided by these rewards equals the Sky Savings Rate (SSR), as per [A.4.3.2 - Token Reward Mechanism](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.3.2_Token_Reward_Mechanism/2e3e7014-bd66-4e85-b915-b86ae3ceeb16%7Cb3417d54), by executing the following actions:

- `yank()` MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY vest with ID 4.
- Claim the remaining tokens from the old DssVest by calling `VestedRewardsDistribution.distribute()` on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY.
- Create a new MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY stream with the following parameters:
  - res: 1 (restricted)
  - vestBgn: block.timestamp
  - vestTau: block.timestamp + 15,724,800 seconds (182 days after the spell executes)
  - tot: **100,851,495 SKY**

> - Increase SKY allowance for MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY to the sum of all active streams and the new stream created by this executive vote.

Reviewer: Does not match order of the exec sheet, allowance increase comes before stream creation on the sheet

  - [`line`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.1_Maximum_Debt_Ceiling_(line)/6f1a913d-9436-4b70-816b-e317672737d6|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb) remains unchanged at **2.5 billion USDS**.
  - [`ttl`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.3_Ceiling_Increase_Cooldown_(ttl)/58f5315f-938f-464c-b2d2-f611145d469a|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb) remains unchanged at **86,400 seconds**.
- Apply ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A auto-line changes.
- Execute Grove Proxy Spell at address [0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1) - further details below.
- Decrease ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A `gap` by 1.2 billion USDS from 1.25 billion USDS to **50 million USDS**.
  - [`line`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.1_Maximum_Debt_Ceiling_(line)/6f1a913d-9436-4b70-816b-e317672737d6|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb) remains unchanged at **2.5 billion USDS**.
  - [`ttl`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.3_Ceiling_Increase_Cooldown_(ttl)/58f5315f-938f-464c-b2d2-f611145d469a|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb) remains unchanged at **86,400 seconds**.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Star Proxy Spells for Grove and Spark

If this executive proposal passes, then Star proxy spells for Grove and Spark will be executed at [0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1) and at [0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15](https://etherscan.io/address/0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15) respectively with the following contents.

#### Grove Proxy Spell

##### [Mainnet] Mint USDS for BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens and Send it to Spark Allocator Buffer

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> The [Grove Allocator Buffer](https://etherscan.io/address/0x629ad4d779f46b8a1491d3f76f7e97cb04d8b1cd) will mint and transfer the exact amount of USDS 1:1 to the BUIDL-I balance at the time of Spell execution plus 404,016,484 USDS for the JTRSY balance to the [Spark Allocator Buffer](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc395d150e71378b47a1b8e9de0c1a83b75a08324) in order to close the balance related to these tokenized T-bill holdings. Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.

Reviewer: Improved wording suggestion

```suggestion
The [Grove Allocator Buffer](https://etherscan.io/address/0x629ad4d779f46b8a1491d3f76f7e97cb04d8b1cd) will mint an amount of USDS equal to the BUIDL-I balance of the [Spark ALMProxy](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1601843c5E9bC251A3272907010AFa41Fa18347E) at the time of Spell execution plus 404,016,484 USDS to account for Spark's JTRSY balance. This USDS will be transferred to the [Spark Allocator Buffer](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc395d150e71378b47a1b8e9de0c1a83b75a08324) to close the balance related to these tokenized T-bill holdings. Consequently, Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.
```

- `max`: Increase by 50 million from 50 million to **100 million USDC**.
- `slope`: Increase by 25 million per day from 25 million per day to **50 million USDC per day**.

##### [Mainnet] Spark Liquidity Layer - Transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens to Grove

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Transfer of all BUIDL and JTRSY tokenized T-bills held by Spark to [Grove ALMProxy](https://etherscan.io/address/0x491EDFB0B8b608044e227225C715981a30F3A44E). Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.

Additional information about this transfer can be found in [this forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/tokenized-t-bills-transfer-from-spark-to-grove/26785).

##### [Mainnet] SparkLend - Transfer Accumulated SparkLend ETH to Multisig to be Liquidated

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1532](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmaLxz19)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> Transfer the accumulated ETH earned from [SparkLend's reserve factor](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb137e7d16564c81ae2b0c8ee6b55de81dd46ece5) to the following multisig to be liquidated into USDS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transfer the accumulated ETH earned from SparkLend's Reserve Factor held in the [Spark Treasury contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb137e7d16564c81ae2b0c8ee6b55de81dd46ece5) to the following multisig to be liquidated into USDS:
```

Liquidation multisig: [0x2E1b01adABB8D4981863394bEa23a1263CBaeDfC](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2e1b01adabb8d4981863394bea23a1263cbaedfc)

Any received USDS will later be transferred to the Spark Proxy and serve as additional Risk Capital.

##### [Mainnet] Spark USDS Vault - Onboard PT-SPK-USDS Farm

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1530](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmP7RB2p)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Deploy a Spark USDS Morpho Vault and onboard the [PT USDS-SPK](https://app.pendle.finance/trade/markets/0xff43e751f2f07bbf84da1fc1fa12ce116bf447e5/swap?view=pt&chain=ethereum&tab=info) Farm with the following parameters.

> ###### Vault Parameter Summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Spark Liquidity Layer Vault [Rate Limit](https://docs.spark.fi/dev/spark-liquidity-layer/spark-alm-controller#rate-limits) Parameters
```

- `Max amount`: **200 million USDS**
- `Slope`: **100 million USDS per day**

> ###### PT-USDS-24Sep2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### PT-USDS-24Sep2025 Market Parameters
```

The Governance Facilitators, Sidestream and Dewiz have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. SKY Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following alterations to the Sky Protocol.

If you are new to voting in the Sky Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

---

## Executive Summary

If this executive proposal passes, the following **actions** will occur within the Sky Protocol:

- Actions to rebalance the Sky Token Rewards will be executed.
- A total of **21,062 USDS** will be distributed as Aligned Delegate compensation for June 2025.
- A total of **77,584 USDS** and **618,000 SKY** will be distributed as Atlas Core Development payments for July 2025.
- A Huntingdon Valley Bank DAO Resolution will be approved.
- Auxiliary actions for the transfer of tokenized T-bills from Spark to Grove will be executed.

> - Star proxy spells for Grove and Spark will be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Star proxy spells for Grove and Spark will be executed at [0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1) and [0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15](https://etherscan.io/address/0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15) respectively.
```

---

## Proposal Details

### Sky Token Rewards Rebalance

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/9)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/8)

If this executive proposal passes, then the distribution of SKY token rewards to USDS holders will be normalized to ensure the effective yield provided by these rewards equals the Sky Savings Rate (SSR), as per [A.4.3.2 - Token Reward Mechanism](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.3.2_Token_Reward_Mechanism/2e3e7014-bd66-4e85-b915-b86ae3ceeb16%7Cb3417d54), by executing the following actions:

- `yank()` MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY vest with ID 4.
- Claim the remaining tokens from the old DssVest by calling `VestedRewardsDistribution.distribute()` on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY.
- Create a new MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY stream with the following parameters:
  - res: 1 (restricted)
  - vestBgn: block.timestamp
  - vestTau: block.timestamp + 15,724,800 seconds (182 days after the spell executes)

>   - Vesting rate: 100,851,495 * WAD SKY

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - tot: 100,851,495 SKY
```

  - [`ttl`](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.3_Ceiling_Increase_Cooldown_(ttl)/58f5315f-938f-464c-b2d2-f611145d469a|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb) remains unchanged at **86,400 seconds**.

Grove ALM Proxy: [0x491EDFB0B8b608044e227225C715981a30F3A44E](https://etherscan.io/address/0x491EDFB0B8b608044e227225C715981a30F3A44E)

### Star Proxy Spells for Grove and Spark

If this executive proposal passes, then Star proxy spells for Grove and Spark will be executed at [0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe069f56033Ed646aF3B4024501FF47BBce67CfD1) and at [0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15](https://etherscan.io/address/0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15) respectively with the following contents.

#### Grove Proxy Spell

##### [Mainnet] Mint USDS for BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens and Send it to Spark Allocator Buffer

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> The Grove Allocator will mint and transfer the exact amount of USDS 1:1 to the BUIDL-I balance at the time of Spell execution plus 404,016,484 USDS for the JTRSY balance to the Spark Allocator in order to close the balance related to these tokenized T-bill holdings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Grove Allocator Buffer](https://etherscan.io/address/0x629ad4d779f46b8a1491d3f76f7e97cb04d8b1cd) will mint and transfer the exact amount of USDS 1:1 to the BUIDL-I balance at the time of Spell execution plus 404,016,484 USDS for the JTRSY balance to the [Spark Allocator Buffer](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc395d150e71378b47a1b8e9de0c1a83b75a08324) in order to close the balance related to these tokenized T-bill holdings. Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.
```

- `max`: Increase by 50 million from 50 million to **100 million USDC**.
- `slope`: Increase by 25 million per day from 25 million per day to **50 million USDC per day**.

##### [Mainnet] Spark Liquidity Layer - Transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens to Grove

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY tokenized T-bills to Grove Allocator. Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.

Additional information about this transfer can be found in [this forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/tokenized-t-bills-transfer-from-spark-to-grove/26785).

##### [Mainnet] SparkLend - Transfer Accumulated SparkLend ETH to Multisig to be Liquidated

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1532](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmaLxz19)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> Transfer the accumulated ETH earned from SparkLend's reserve factor to the following multisig to be liquidated into USDS:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transfer the accumulated ETH earned from [SparkLend's reserve factor](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb137e7d16564c81ae2b0c8ee6b55de81dd46ece5) to the following multisig to be liquidated into USDS:
```

---
title: Template - [Executive Vote] MKR-to-SKY Phase Three, Sky Token Rewards Rebalance, Aligned Delegate Compensation for June 2025, Atlas Core Development Payments for July 2025, HVB DAO Resolution, Auxiliary Actions for Token Transfer Between Spark and Grove, Star Proxy Spells - July 24, 2025

> summary: MKR-to-SKY phase three actions, Sky Token Rewards rebalance, Aligned Delegate compensation for June 2025, Atlas Core Development USDS and SKY payments for July 2025, Huntington Valley Bank DAO Resolution, Auxiliary Actions for Token Transfer Between Spark and Grove,  Grove proxy spell execution, Spark proxy spell execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: MKR-to-SKY phase three actions, Sky Token Rewards rebalance, Aligned Delegate compensation for June 2025, Atlas Core Development USDS and SKY payments for July 2025, Huntingdon Valley Bank DAO Resolution, Auxiliary Actions for Token Transfer Between Spark and Grove,  Grove proxy spell execution, Spark proxy spell execution.
```

date: 2025-07-24T00:00:00.000Z
address: "$spell_address"
---

> # [Executive Proposal] MKR-to-SKY Phase Three, Sky Token Rewards Rebalance, Aligned Delegate Compensation for June 2025, Atlas Core Development Payments for July 2025, HVB DAO Resolution, Spark Auxiliary Actions for Token Transfer Between Spark and Grove, Star Proxy Spells - July 24, 2025

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# [Executive Proposal] MKR-to-SKY Phase Three, Sky Token Rewards Rebalance, Aligned Delegate Compensation for June 2025, Atlas Core Development Payments for July 2025, HVB DAO Resolution, Auxiliary Actions for Token Transfer Between Spark and Grove, Star Proxy Spells - July 24, 2025
```

The Governance Facilitators, Sidestream and Dewiz have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. SKY Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following alterations to the Sky Protocol.

If you are new to voting in the Sky Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

---

## Executive Summary

If this executive proposal passes, the following **actions** will occur within the Sky Protocol:

- MKR-to-SKY Upgrade Phase Three actions will be executed.

> - Actions to rebalance the Sky Token Reward will be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Actions to rebalance the Sky Token Rewards will be executed.
```

- Auxiliary actions for the transfer of tokenized T-bills from Spark to Grove will be executed.
- Star proxy spells for Spark and Grove will be executed.

**Voting for this executive proposal will place your SKY in support of the actions outlined above.**

Unless otherwise noted, the actions listed above are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.9.2.1_Pause_Delay/a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0|0db30758e055). This means that if this executive proposal passes, the changes and additions listed above will only become active in the Sky Protocol after the GSM Pause Delay has expired. The GSM Pause Delay is currently set to [**24 hours**](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.9.2.1.2_Pause_Delay_Current_Value/09d2514b-3169-4755-a654-2c774456980d|0db30758e055d2d0).

This executive proposal includes an office-hours modifier that means that it **can only be executed between 14:00 and 21:00 UTC, Monday - Friday**.

If this executive proposal does not pass within 30 days, then it will expire and can no longer have any effect on the Sky Protocol.

---

## Proposal Details

### MKR-to-SKY Upgrade Phase Three

> - **Authorization**: [Atlas](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.1.2.1.4.2.2_Offboard_Borrowing_Against_Staked_MKR/1f1f2ff0-8d73-8024-bf88-f0a17374ceea%7Cb341f4c0b83472dc1f9e1a3b)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Authorization**: [Atlas](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.1.2.1.4.2.2_Offboard_Borrowing_Against_Staked_MKR/1f1f2ff0-8d73-8024-bf88-f0a17374ceea%7Cb341f4c0b83472dc1f9e1a3b), [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/phase-3-mkr-to-sky-migration-items-july-24th-spell/26750/2)
```

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/9)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/8)

If this executive proposal passes, then the distribution of SKY token rewards to USDS holders will be normalized to ensure the effective yield provided by these rewards equals the Sky Savings Rate (SSR), as per [A.4.3.2 - Token Reward Mechanism](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.3.2_Token_Reward_Mechanism/2e3e7014-bd66-4e85-b915-b86ae3ceeb16%7Cb3417d54), by executing the following actions:

- Yank MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY vest with ID 4.
- Claim the remaining tokens from the old DssVest by calling `VestedRewardsDistribution.distribute()` on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY.
- Increase SKY allowance for MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY to the sum of all streams.
- Create a new MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY stream with the following parameters:
  - res: 1 (restricted)
  - vestBgn: block.timestamp
  - vestTau: block.timestamp + 15,724,800 seconds (182 days after the spell executes)
  - Vesting rate: 100,851,495 * WAD SKY

>   - File the new stream ID on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Increase SKY allowance for MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY to the sum of all streams.
 - File the new stream ID on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY
```

| Cloaky    | 288,000      | [0x9244F47D70587Fa2329B89B6f503022b63Ad54A5](https://etherscan.io/address/0x9244F47D70587Fa2329B89B6f503022b63Ad54A5) |

### Huntington Valley Bank DAO Resolution

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Authorization](https://forum.sky.money/t/huntingdon-valley-bank-transaction-documents-on-permaweb/16264/28)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/huntingdon-valley-bank-transaction-documents-on-permaweb/16264/27)

If this executive proposal passes, then the DAO Resolution with IPFS hash [bafkreidm3bqfiwv224m6w4zuabsiwqruy22sjfaxfvgx4kgcnu3wndxmva](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafkreidm3bqfiwv224m6w4zuabsiwqruy22sjfaxfvgx4kgcnu3wndxmva) will be approved.

### Auxiliary Actions for Token Transfer between Spark and Grove

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796#p-103150-mainnet-spark-liquidity-layer-transfer-buidl-and-jtrsy-tokens-to-grove-5)

> If this executive proposal passes, then Spark will transfer the existing BUIDL and JTRSY T-bill allocations to Grove by executing the following actions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes, the following auxiliary actions will be carried out to allow Grove to mint and transfer USDS to Spark in exchange for the tokenized T-Bills, BUIDL, and JTRSY:
```

#### Grove Proxy Spell

##### [Mainnet] Mint USDS for BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens and Send it to Spark Allocator Buffer

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

The Grove Allocator will mint and transfer the exact amount of USDS 1:1 to the BUIDL-I balance at the time of Spell execution plus 404,016,484 USDS for the JTRSY balance to the Spark Allocator in order to close the balance related to these tokenized T-bill holdings.

##### [Mainnet] Grove Liquidity Layer - Onboard BlackRock BUIDL-I

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1536](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmdkNnmE)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> Onboard BlackRock BUIDL-I on the Grove Liquidity Layer on Mainnet with the following [rate limit](https://docs.spark.fi/dev/spark-liquidity-layer/spark-alm-controller#rate-limits) parameters:

Reviewer 2: I haven't found a good non-Spark source for this. We should probably ask AA to add a section in the Atlas that explains them. They're mentioned there, but not really explained (or at least I couldn't find it)

Reduce the WBTC [Liquidation Threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.AG1.3.2.1.1.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition/1c1f2ff0-8d73-81ea-bd7e-feb73a44923a%7C7896ed3326389fe3553030cd0a82f68efd49) by 5 percentage points from 40% to **35%**.

##### [Base] Spark Liquidity Layer - Increase Spark USDC Morpho Vault Rate Limits

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1529](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmSnpq5K)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Increase the Spark USDC Morpho vault [rate limits](https://docs.spark.fi/dev/spark-liquidity-layer/spark-alm-controller#rate-limits) on Base as follows:

- `max`: Increase by 50 million from 50 million to **100 million USDC**.
- `slope`: Increase by 25 million per day from 25 million per day to **50 million USDC per day**.

##### [Mainnet] Spark Liquidity Layer - Spark transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens to Grove

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> Facilitate a Spark transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY tokens to Grove. This requires the above changes at "Spark transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY tokens to Grove" to the ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A Debt Ceiling Instant Access Module to facilitate the offsetting transfer of USDS from Grove to Spark as Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY tokenized T-bills to Grove Allocator. Grove will assume the associated debt positions for these collateral tokens.
```

Additional information about this transfer can be found in [this forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/tokenized-t-bills-transfer-from-spark-to-grove/26785).

##### [Mainnet] SparkLend - Transfer Accumulated SparkLend ETH to Multisig to be Liquidated

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1532](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmaLxz19)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Transfer the accumulated ETH earned from SparkLend's reserve factor to the following multisig to be liquidated into USDS:

Liquidation multisig: [0x2E1b01adABB8D4981863394bEa23a1263CBaeDfC](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2e1b01adabb8d4981863394bea23a1263cbaedfc)

Any received USDS will later be transferred to the Spark Proxy and serve as additional risk capital.

##### [Mainnet] Spark USDS Vault - Onboard PT-SPK-USDS Farm

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1530](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmP7RB2p)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> Deploy a Spark USDS Morpho Vault and onboard the PT-SPK-USDS Farm with the following parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy a Spark USDS Morpho Vault and onboard the [PT USDS-SPK](https://app.pendle.finance/trade/markets/0xff43e751f2f07bbf84da1fc1fa12ce116bf447e5/swap?view=pt&chain=ethereum) Farm with the following parameters.
```

The Governance Facilitators, Sidestream and Dewiz have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. SKY Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following alterations to the Sky Protocol.

If you are new to voting in the Sky Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

---

## Executive Summary

If this executive proposal passes, the following **actions** will occur within the Sky Protocol:

- MKR-to-SKY Upgrade Phase Three actions will be executed.
- Actions to rebalance the Sky Token Reward will be executed.
- A total of **21,062 USDS** will be distributed as Aligned Delegate compensation for June 2025.
- A total of **77,584 USDS** and **618,000 SKY** will be distributed as Atlas Core Development payments for July 2025.
- A Huntington Valley Bank DAO Resolution will be approved.
- A tokenized T-bills transfer from Spark to Grove will be executed.
- Star proxy spells for Spark and Grove will be executed.

> ### Execute Spark Proxy Spell

Author: Copy-paste artifact!

> - **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/may-29-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26372/3)

Reviewer 3: We should remove this.

- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/may-29-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26372)

If this executive proposal passes, then a Spark Proxy Spell will be executed at [0x3968a022D955Bbb7927cc011A48601B65a33F346](https://etherscan.io/address/0x3968a022D955Bbb7927cc011A48601B65a33F346) with the following contents.

**Voting for this executive proposal will place your SKY in support of the actions outlined above.**

> Unless otherwise noted, the actions listed above are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.1.8.2.1_Pause_Delay-a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0|0db30758e055). This means that if this executive proposal passes, the changes and additions listed above will only become active in the Sky Protocol after the GSM Pause Delay has expired. The GSM Pause Delay is currently set to [**24 hours**](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.1.8.2.1.2_Pause_Delay_Current_Value-09d2514b-3169-4755-a654-2c774456980d|0db30758e055d2d0).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise noted, the actions listed above are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.9.2.1_Pause_Delay/a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0|0db30758e055). This means that if this executive proposal passes, the changes and additions listed above will only become active in the Sky Protocol after the GSM Pause Delay has expired. The GSM Pause Delay is currently set to [**24 hours**](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.9.2.1.2_Pause_Delay_Current_Value/09d2514b-3169-4755-a654-2c774456980d|0db30758e055d2d0).
```

This executive proposal includes an office-hours modifier that means that it **can only be executed between 14:00 and 21:00 UTC, Monday - Friday**.

If this executive proposal does not pass within 30 days, then it will expire and can no longer have any effect on the Sky Protocol.

---

## Proposal Details

### MKR-to-SKY Upgrade Phase Three

- **Authorization**: [Atlas](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.1.2.1.4.2.2_Offboard_Borrowing_Against_Staked_MKR/1f1f2ff0-8d73-8024-bf88-f0a17374ceea%7Cb341f4c0b83472dc1f9e1a3b)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/phase-3-mkr-to-sky-migration-items-july-24th-spell/26750)

If this executive proposal passes, then the following actions will complete Phase Three of the MKR-to-SKY Upgrade.

#### Offboard LSE-MKR-A (legacy [Seal Engine](https://info.sky.money/collateral/seal-engine))

> - Increase LSE-MKR-A liquidation ratio by 9,875 percentage points from 125% to **10,000%**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Increase LSE-MKR-A [liquidation ratio](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.1_Liquidation_Ratio/1184ab96-8cad-4755-9798-2c8782304407|57eaf45219bea3b430c2) by 9,875 percentage points from 125% to **10,000%**.
```

> - Reduce LSE-MKR-A `chop` by 8 percentage points from 8% to **0%**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Reduce LSE-MKR-A `[chop](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.5.7_Liquidation_Penalty_(chop)/5295aa1f-3944-4fde-aaec-d999244b57e9|57eaf45219bea3b430c2a59a)` by 8 percentage points from 8% to **0%**.
```

### Sky Token Rewards Rebalance

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/9)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/sky-token-rewards-usds-to-sky-rewards-normalization-configuration/26638/8)

If this executive proposal passes, then the distribution of SKY token rewards to USDS holders will be normalized to ensure the effective yield provided by these rewards equals the Sky Savings Rate (SSR), as per [A.4.3.2 - Token Reward Mechanism](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.3.2_Token_Reward_Mechanism/2e3e7014-bd66-4e85-b915-b86ae3ceeb16%7Cb3417d54), by executing the following actions:

- Yank MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY vest with ID 4.

> - Claim the remaining tokens from the old DssVest by calling `VestedRewardsDistribution.distribute()` on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Claim the remaining tokens from the old DssVest by calling `VestedRewardsDistribution.distribute()` on REWARDS_DIST_USDS_SKY.
- Increase SKY allowance for MCD_VEST_SKY_TREASURY to the sum of all streams.
```

### Huntington Valley Bank DAO Resolution

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Authorization](https://forum.sky.money/t/huntingdon-valley-bank-transaction-documents-on-permaweb/16264/28)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/huntingdon-valley-bank-transaction-documents-on-permaweb/16264/27)

If this executive proposal passes, then the DAO Resolution with IPFS hash [bafkreidm3bqfiwv224m6w4zuabsiwqruy22sjfaxfvgx4kgcnu3wndxmva](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/bafkreidm3bqfiwv224m6w4zuabsiwqruy22sjfaxfvgx4kgcnu3wndxmva) will be approved.

### Spark transfer of BUIDL and JTRSY tokens to Grove

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796#p-103150-mainnet-spark-liquidity-layer-transfer-buidl-and-jtrsy-tokens-to-grove-5)

If this executive proposal passes, then Spark will transfer the existing BUIDL and JTRSY T-bill allocations to Grove by executing the following actions:

> - Increase ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A DC-IAM `gap` by 1.2 billion USDS from 50 million USDS to **1.25 billion USDS**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Increase ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A DC-IAM `[gap](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.2_Target_Available_Debt_(gap)/c1e17312-3744-4360-81f4-03564f0dd09d|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb)` by 1.2 billion USDS from 50 million USDS to **1.25 billion USDS**.
```

> - Increase ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A DC-IAM `gap` by 1.2 billion USDS from 50 million USDS to **1.25 billion USDS**.

Reviewer 2: Let's add documentation about DC-IAM and its parameters

- `line` remains unchanged at **2.5 billion USDS**.

> - `ttl` remains unchanged at **86400 seconds**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `[ttl](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.1.2.4.3_Ceiling_Increase_Cooldown_(ttl)/58f5315f-938f-464c-b2d2-f611145d469a|57eaf45219bea3b430c268bb)` remains unchanged at **86400 seconds**.
```

- Apply ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A auto-line changes.
- Execute Grove Proxy Spell at address TBC.
- Decrease ALLOCATOR-BLOOM-A `gap` by 1.2 billion USDS from 1.25 billion USDS to 50 million USDS.

Grove ALM Proxy: [0x491EDFB0B8b608044e227225C715981a30F3A44E](https://etherscan.io/address/0x491EDFB0B8b608044e227225C715981a30F3A44E)

### Star Proxy Spells for Spark and Grove

- **Authorization**: Ecosystem Approval [1](http://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796/3), [2](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-onboardings-for-grove-in-upcoming-spell/26805/3)
- **Proposal**: Forum Posts [1](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796), [2](http://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-onboardings-for-grove-in-upcoming-spell/26805)

> If this executive proposal passes, then Star proxy spells for Spark and Grove will be executed at [TBD](https://etherscan.io/address/TBD) and at [TBD](https://etherscan.io/address/TBD) respectively with the following contents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes, then Star proxy spells for Spark and Grove will be executed at [0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15](https://etherscan.io/address/0x41EdbF09cd2f272175c7fACB857B767859543D15) and at [0x8AfC2C232716674b45CB131F858e870AA6aCD9FF](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8AfC2C232716674b45CB131F858e870AA6aCD9FF) respectively with the following contents.
```

#### Spark Proxy Spell

##### [Mainnet] SparkLend - Reduce WBTC Liquidation Threshold

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1531](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmUYJ9YQ)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Reduce the WBTC [Liquidation Threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.AG1.3.2.1.1.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition/1c1f2ff0-8d73-81ea-bd7e-feb73a44923a%7C7896ed3326389fe3553030cd0a82f68efd49) by 5 percentage points from 40% to **35%**.

##### [Base] Spark Liquidity Layer - Increase Spark USDC Morpho Vault Rate Limits

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1529](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmSnpq5K)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Increase the Spark USDC Morpho vault [rate limits](https://docs.spark.fi/dev/spark-liquidity-layer/spark-alm-controller#rate-limits) on Base as follows:

`max`: Increase by 50 million from 50 million to **100 million USDC**.

> `slope`: Increase by 25 million per day from 25 million per day to **50 million USDC per day**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `slope`: Increase by 25 million per day from 25 million per day to **50 million USDC per day**.
```

Additional information about this transfer can be found in [this forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/tokenized-t-bills-transfer-from-spark-to-grove/26785).

##### [Mainnet] SparkLend - Transfer Accumulated SparkLend ETH to Multisig to be Liquidated

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1532](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmaLxz19)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

Transfer the accumulated ETH earned from SparkLend's reserve factor to the following multisig to be liquidated into USDS:

Liquidation multisig: [0x2E1b01adABB8D4981863394bEa23a1263CBaeDfC](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2e1b01adabb8d4981863394bea23a1263cbaedfc)

Any received USDS will later be transferred to the Spark Proxy and serve as additional risk capital.

##### [Mainnet] Spark USDS Vault - Onboard PT-SPK-USDS Farm

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1530](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmP7RB2p)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

> Deploy a Spark USDS Morpho Vault and onboarding the PT-SPK-USDS Farm with the following parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy a Spark USDS Morpho Vault and onboard the PT-SPK-USDS Farm with the following parameters.
```

###### Vault Parameter Summary

- `Max amount`: **200 million USDS**
- `Slope`: **100 million USDS per day**

###### PT-USDS-24Sep2025

Pool LLTV: **96.5%**
Oracle base value (value at maturity): **1 USDS per PT token**

> Oracle discount rate: **15%**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Oracle discount rate: **15%**
```

Pool supply cap: **500 million USDS**

#### Grove Proxy Spell

##### [Mainnet] Mint USDS for BUIDL and JTRSY Tokens and Send it to Spark Allocator Buffer

- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1533](https://vote.sky.money/polling/Qme5qebN)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/july-24-2025-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/26796)

The Grove Allocator will mint and transfer the exact amount of USDS 1:1 to the BUIDL-I balance at the time of Spell execution plus 404,016,484 USDS for the JTRSY balance to the Spark Allocator in order to close the balance related to these tokenized T-bill holdings.

##### [Mainnet] Grove Liquidity Layer - Onboard BlackRock BUIDL-I

> - **Authorization**: [Governance Poll TBD](https://vote.sky.money/polling/TBD)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Authorization**: [Governance Poll 1536](https://vote.sky.money/polling/QmdkNnmE)
```
